
                          CHANGES SINCE THE 3.5 RELEASE

The most recent of these notices come first.

12/18/98
  Source code of DNAPARS changed to fix memory problem that was crashing
long bootstrapping runs.  We will soon upgrade the executables as well.

12/15/95
  C Sources, documentation, and all executables updated to version 3.572c.
This fixes three problems:  (1) Removes a PCL5 operation in DRAWGRAM and
DRAWTREE output which is in PCL (HP Laserjet) format, and which may have been
why the plotfiles could not be used on many inkjet printers, (2) Corrects
a bug in MIX that incorrectly calculated the number of steps in user trees
after the first user tree (where there were more than one), (3) Fixes a
bug in DNAMLK that sometimes did not allow a very short branch to get longer.

11/13/95
  We have recompiled the Windows executables on Watcom C++ version 10.5
and they now work on both Windows95 (including having their icons) and also
on Windows 3.1 (and for all we know on 3.0 too).  The README.win file now
has a better-organized description of how to install them and the possible
problems that may arise running them.

 7/27/95
  We have upgraded to release 3.57, removing the flawed program coallike,
and fixing a number of bugs including memory allocation problems in
DNAPARS that prevented some bootstrap runs from finishing, and
file permission problems in PICT files produced by Mac executables.

 4/27/95
  PowerMac and Macintosh executables archives updated to reflect bug fixes to
ensure that Drawgram and Drawtree make correct PICT files with correct
ownership.

 2/28/95
  PowerMac executables recompiled to upgrade them to the 3.56 release and
placed in self-extracting CompactPro archives both in MacBinary and
BinHexed forms.  Our regular Mac executables do not seem to run on some
PowerMacs for reasons that are not clear, but these are faster anyway.

 12/17/94
  Macintosh archives finally updated to correct the source code and
executables to correct PICT and Categories problems.  They had been
compiled using outdated source code last time and did not fix the
problems they purported to fix.

 9/22/94
  We have updated the archives to version 3.55, which corrects bugs that
would not read the input for the Categories options in the Mac version,
would not let Categories and Weights options work together properly in
the programs (DnaML, DnaMLK, and DnaDist) that had them both, and also
allows more species in Retree, and writes PICT files correctly in the
tree-drawing programs.  We also have new icons in the Windows
executables as well as improved ones in the Macintosh 68k executables.
The BinHex format has been added for the Mac 68k archives too.

 6/21/94
  Don Gilbert has compiled PHYLIP 3.54 (the latest version as of this date)
for the PowerMac.  I have put this in a Compactpro self-extracting
archive as indicated below.  These are PowerMac native code binaries,
not "fat" binaries.   The self-extraction is 680x0 code but should run
in emulation mode on System 7 on a PowerMac automatically.  Many thanks
to Don for all his hard work.

 5/21/94
Sources and executables changed to fix some bugs, especially problems
with reading options in the Macintosh code, incorrect permutation code
in SEQBOOT, and some problems with DNAMLK categories and jumble options.
The program COALLIKE should not be used for data analyses -- that method
is now known to be biased and has been superseded by a new package,
LAMARC, available at this ftp site, as C code for workstations.

 10/1/93
  The executables for 386 PCDOS and Windows have now been recompiled to
allow a larger stack size.  This was causing problems in some cases.

 9/14/93
   The Windows executables posted here have now had the math coprocessor
emulation problem fixed.  They should run successfully with or without
a math coprocessor, if the WEMU387.386 emulation library is used as
described in the README.WIN documentation file.

